 We have been talking about this audio, audio processing with respect to speaker recognition, speech recognition, or any such related task. But you also know that with any of these security technologies, there can be attacks or there can be people who have any kind of ill intention who would like to defraud the system, who would like to fool the system. Have you heard of any such examples, any such real world examples where any kind of security system is in place, be it biometrics, face? Voice, any of those. And there have been cases where these systems have been fooled. Anybody remembers any such instance? Would like to share. Someone, you have to speak up. Is he going to answer? OK, all right. So there have been several such instances, not only. Only in I'm audible, right? Somebody, please speak up. I'm not able to hear you guys to see the text and all. OK, so there have been several such instances with respect to different kinds of. Tasks, automation tasks that we have been performing, right, and specifically in speech, these are all the news clippings that you see of documented cases. OK, one of the interesting ones, the one that you. See at the bottom. Citibank launches voice passwords in India, right, so Citibank launched voice passwords. You can gain access to accounts by using by speaking out your passwords and you will also see in capture that you can you can speak out what. So there are image captures and then there are audio captures also that are there for people with special requirements. They can speak out audio captures. Right so. But these these can be. Fooled using using some of these technologies and this is what also happened in in some of these cases. For example, this Adobe Boko they have a Photoshop or voice which can lead to concerns. We have robot speech simulator and and several other such things that that have been proposed in the literature and similar counterparts have also been proposed. Uh, which can be used. to defraud okay so specifically speaking uh this this line of research of presentation attack like we call it or spoofing this has been in the community for like 15 years or so now the research started the first competition around this it's called as the uh spoofing uh audio spoofing competition aasp audio spoofing verification competition we call it so uh this competition started i think around 2011 or so in the research community right at that time they were looking at some very specific kinds of attacks and i'll show you what those kinds of attacks were but uh these these competitions when they're still running those competitions are still running uh to evaluate the performance or of you know the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the these um attack detection algorithms or manipulation detection algorithms but after a few years that this research on presentation of spoofing started iso uh got involved this international standards organization and they created a standards document on presentation attacks earlier we used to call it spoofing but then i also termed it as presentation attacks so anything that is present presented in front of a biometric system it can be attacked right so and then there are different kinds of attacks so uh the earlier the nomenclature used to be like real spoof but then they uh proposed this nomenclature of bona fide and imposter so bona fide is a real one right so in this case with respect to face if you see bona fide is is uh the real face so you would enroll a real face a real face is coming as um a query so so this is predicted as genuine right but then you could have impostors now what are those impresses impostor is anyone who's trying to fraudulently gain access to the system right now this is something called a zero effort impostor what is the zero effort impostor so let's say i want to gain access to your account right i just go in front of the biometrics system and i give my feeling that i don't have any luxury Maeve so that's what our start is going to be we are going to start in humans class so i want to give biometric let's say that biometric is face or that biometric is audio I just give that biometric as I just without any effort of trying to look like you or trying to impersonate your voice or fingerprint whatever that modality is I just go using my characteristics and try to gain access to your account right so that is something called a zero effort imposter which is in which case it is very likely that I will not be able to gain access it will be it will be a failed attempt right but then there are cases in which one can get access and go back to doddington zoo when where we had these goat lamb sheeps and wolves right there are some cases there's some individuals who are easy to impersonate so if if these are easy to impersonate people even with zero effort imposter I might be I might just be able to gain access depending on depending on a lot of characteristics lot of factors right but then what I can also do is do a bit more effort in trying to gain access to your account okay now in what ways can I try to gain access to your account let's say if it is audio or video or video recording in in what ways can I get access to your account can you think of it if I have to spoof an audio data an audio signal if you were given this task of spoofing what will you do how will you create a spoof of audio let's say you have to gain access to my account what will you do I'm waiting for the answers uh try to uh text uh uh okay try to speak in your uh uh language like uh like a language that you want to use uh try to uh text uh uh okay try to speak in your uh uh language like a language that you want to use uh language like a like my name is richard please open the account okay so try to speak in uh my audio okay yes nearly uh spoken in your sound like likewise okay anything else record your voice and and then feed it record my voice and feed it that is good what else use a text to speech model uh and uh text uh said my name is rita please open the account this type of things so that the models uh create an audio and feed that in the network We can also make a deep fake of your voice. You can also make a deep take of mine. All right. So all of these, all of these are valid answers. Right. And the, the method of, okay, let me just play this audio signals for you. In order to play this, I think I'll have to go to the drive. Okay. Let me go to the drive. Just listen to this audio and tell me if it is. Okay. So whose voice is this? Shah Rukh Khan, obviously. Right. Do you think it is a real voice of Shah Rukh Khan or this is any kind of real voice? And you cannot hear the audio. We are not able to hear it. You cannot hear my audio or you cannot hear the audio I just played. Videos. Yeah. You couldn't hear the audio I played, right? Let give me one second. Let me stop responding. Okay. It is generated sound. It is how do you generate sound? Some gaps in Sharatham's voice. There is some gap. He's used to speaking with gaps. No. Yes, yes. Anybody else would like to give it a try? Okay, let me play another one. What about this? Yes, ma'am. I think real voice. Okay. No, I don't think it's real. The tonality is a little bit different. Okay. It's a little bit changed. Okay. So, both of these guys are generated audios. Okay. Shahrukh Khan as well as Amrish Puri. This Amrish Puri's audio was generated after he passed away. Right? And this Shahrukh Khan's audio. So there's this entire video that was generated a few years back. By Cadbury's. And they did an ad with Shahrukh Khan's voice for local kirana stores. Right? Because if you hear the audio, he's talking about local kirana store wale se ye lena or paas ke Sharma ji ki dukaan se ye lena and all of that. Right? These guys can't afford Shahrukh Khan. These local kirana stores and local uncle and auntie shops. Right? Right. They can't afford Shahrukh Khan. So they, Cadbury's used GenAI. I think it was Cadbury's. They use GenAI to create these, create this entire ad. Right? And that ad, you can find that ad on YouTube. It should be still there. So, benefit is you can create, but then I don't know if they took permission from Shahrukh Khan or not. Right? You can, you can create all, all of the ads. Right? So, it's a little bit of a challenge. Right? Right. So, it's a little bit of a challenge. Right? So, I think, you know, it's a little bit of a challenge. I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you know, I think, you can create it. But then I don't know if they took permission from Shahrukh Khan or not. Right. You can, you can create all, all those sorts of things. And, I mean, you guys know that we're talking about defakes till we are having a discussion on whether it is fake or not. Think about any normal person who, who does not know the concept of defakes so well that how good or how bad it is, how would, they differentiate between the two. Right. So there's an entire categorization of spoofing attacks. You can generate samples based on AI methodologies and using some non-AI methodologies as well, right? So if we talk about, obviously, these non-AI methodologies came earlier. And this, when I was talking about the research started like 15 years back, we started with non-AI methodologies, right? In non-AI methodologies, there are four or five kinds of attacks, which are more common ones. The first one is your replay, right? So replay is, I think, Ravi suggested it earlier, that what you can do is you have my audio right now. You have so many required audio samples of me from over multiple classes, right? If you want to gain access to my account, you can take this audio and you can replay it whenever. Take out words or do something of that sort and replay it to gain access to my account, right? So that is your replay attack, okay? To give you an example of replay with respect to a face, this is how you can actually visualize it. So this is your real frames from real video. These are, again, your frames from real video. But what you can do is you can record this video and replay it. Let's say I was trying to gain access to my KYC or my account. Or I want to be present in a meeting. Put attendance using a face biometric system. You can use that and gain access multiple times using that, right? So, again, several years back, okay, there are these school teachers in some country. I think it was Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. Pakistan. practice actually dramatically. And so, we have establisheditating this paper and these Elite Review Random lies, right, which is basically它кая رpipe Storm ويف estão komma And I think... And it's a very siblings study. A lot's fishing in the between That we are going in. that teachers go to school every day. So you have to go to school, you have to put your, you have to take a selfie, and you have to post it on some server with a date and timestamp, so that your attendance is recorded, right? And based on that attendance, the salary was released every month, right? So what some of the teachers used to do that, what I'll do is today, I'll take a picture, I'll go to school, I'll take five pictures for me, okay? And what I can do is tomorrow, if I want to skip school, I have multiple pictures, I'll take this picture, and I'll click another picture of this from the phone, okay? Or I'll take a printout of this, click another picture, and upload this. So the date and timestamp that comes with the photo in the metadata, that will be for tomorrow, because I clicked the photograph from the photograph, the impersonation one that I had, that I clicked tomorrow. So then date and timestamp will be fixed, and I'll have my attendance marked, right? The same kind of thing can be done with respect to audio, where you can capture these sentences, and you can replay it again and again, right? So today, I go with the background and all, I can capture the audio, and wherever required, I can replay the audio to gain access or to provide incorrect information or whatever is the requirement, right? So that is your replay attack. Impersonation, impersonation is simple, we understand that. If you try to impersonate someone, and this impersonation can be done by different methods. Earlier, this used to be, non AI based. And in non AI based, it would be what could be non AI based impersonation, it would be something like, like we, there are mimicry artists, right? There are mimicry artists who can very well mimic the audio of Shah Rukh Khan, Amitabh Bachchan, or anybody, right? They can mimic anybody's voice. So that mimicry would be, that mimicry, if used for impersonation, would be considered as an impersonation. And then, if you try to impersonate someone, you can do a copy move, right? So, if you try to impersonate someone, you can do a copy move, and that would be impersonation to gain access, right? The another one is copy move, right? What is copy move? Copy move is something where I can take an audio signal, and take some parts of an audio from one place to other. In the audio, right? And this, I think happened in the elections this time, when we had general elections. Yeah, when we had general election this time, this is a news clipping I got from YouTube. And let me just play this for you. You can see the screen, the YouTube. No ma'am, the screen is not shared. Oh, screen is not shared. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. The screen got unshared. Okay, can you see it now? Yes ma'am. Okay. Ma'am, not able to hear voice. Oh, you are again not able to hear the voice? Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. What? Understanding? Okay. Okay. Will you guys please come up sure now? Is this going to be any kind of visual? I don't think it is. Let me try to... Yes. I don't think so. Yeah. So. Well, don't put it in audio. Why is it doing this? Anybody knows? Ma'am, I guess instead of sharing the screen, you could share the tab that would allow us to hear the audio in the YouTube. Okay. Let me do that entire screen. In Tab, I'm sure. Okay. Can you hear this now? Yes. Okay, let me just play the first audio very quickly. See, this is the first audio which was claimed to be the original audio, actually. Now let me play you the fake audio. See, what happened here? Lip is not syncing with voice. Lip is not syncing with voice. Okay. What is the kind of attack? What they are trying to do here? So what they did in this is they took some of, they had the original video, right? They had the original video of Mr. Amit Shah, right? And in some places. They didn't change the entire audio or the entire video. What they did this in between, uh, in the beginning of the speech, he used this word. Um, they not, they, he used, they inserted this word. Right. When he was referring to this, they inserted the word. And then. Towards the end, when he was saying that this, uh, reservation will continue. Yeah. Yeah. I think are they gay. They said. So in copy move, what we do, you take a word from somewhere and you insert it. Right. Or you can change phrases. You have a phrase spoken at one place. You pick up this phrase and you insert it somewhere else. Now, in this case, what they did was this, this. Gare somewhere. The neck is probably the word, which they might have found. They might not have found anywhere. To be in the same speech. Right. Now, if you, if they did not find that word in the same speech with the same attire, because there's video also. They'll see this is multimodal spoofing that is happening. You have to spoof the video and you also have to spoof the audio along with it. So lip-syncing and everything else has to go hand in hand very well. Right. So. See the 40 or 10, though, if he had spoken the word Gansam with honey, any. Where any time you can pick up that word and insert it here. Right. But since you have to, you have to do a complete multimodal spoofing, multimodal generation of, uh, of the attack, you need him to speak. You need a video of him speaking the same thing with lip-sync then everything. And that has to be inserted in the middle though. Teen bar book. Yeah. Because the sentence has to flow in place. Right. So earlier. Uh, AI based attack, uh, this, uh, copy move we used to do. This used to be a very simple copy paste here and there. Right. Either either cut, cut, copy, paste, cut, copy, move is something we used to say. Right. So yeah. To delete. But now what has happened and, and in the, in earlier days, it used to be just. If you have an audio of the person speaking those sentences or words only, then you could create this. But today. This generative AI algorithms, what you can do is you can also create these complete instances of, of people speaking. Right. Uh, even if they, if they, even if they weren't existing with you. So this is a combination, this Amit Shaka video that you just saw, I'm Shaka video plus audio that we saw. It was a combination of copy move along with speech synthesis. Right. Along with speech synthesis that we were able to generate. So not only speech synthesis, probably video synthesis also that happened along with it because the entire thing has to be shifted further back. Right. Cookie, uh, words are introduced. So, so that is what we did. Right. And then audio splicing is. Audio. Collegues could splice. Cutting. You can actually, so audio splicing would be similar to copy move their copy. Move your viewers just shifting out audio splicing. Then you can actually remove out. Or. Words completely or phrases completely. Right. So earlier, again, this used to be all non AI today. You can do all of it with AI. And what you'll get is a lot more simplified version and not simplified a lot more smooth out version. Of the attacks. Right. So replay. Cut. Suck. They go. We'll say, um, we can do replay with, um, uh, using AI. Based. Attacks. You can do impersonation. You can do copy more. What do you use? Audio splicing using all of using AI, generative AI algorithms. Right. And in AI base, the two main categories that you have is you can do speed synthesis. So in speech synthesis, what we do in speech synthesis, we can have the complete speech synthesized. Right. Uh, with you. And you can do it in whosoever's voice. You want. You want. Okay. So, uh, Алãh did a play you that song of probably in the past. You guys remember? You have to speak out. I'm not able to see them exactly. But, Give me a minute brother. i remember that there was no means you have had not played any song of party you don't remember okay i'll search for it and i'll i'll show it to you okay so you could do speech synthesis so uh generate something completely in like like amrish puri's audio right so that amrish puri's audio was a complete synthesis we we just have um we don't we had completely new generation of that audio right and then you could do voice conversion and in voice conversion you can you can take whatever i'm speaking and you can have it present in let's say shreya's voice or you can have it present in sham's voice so the complete lecture is being given by uh any other student be it shreya be it sham be it anybody else right so so the entire voice conversion can be done you can do it in the same way talking people with Videosりp iPad is an thing also emit messages also fake wollte ginseng text is the or I would say.